Please visit the FAQ page for an explanation and rational for these
plots: https://github.com/clolsonus/covid-19/blob/master/FAQ.md

# Daily plots

## May 26, 2020

The USA has a couple of light days (great!)  If you look at the data
there is a weekly ebb and flow, but the overall trend stays pretty
consistent.  USA daily death rate (based on the fit line) finally
drops below 1000/day.  Brazil is now solidly above 1000/day and still
accelerating.  Some future models suggest the USA death rate will
plateau again in June and begin to ramp up in July.  With everyone
getting weary of social distancing and with memorial day activities
and summer here, this is not an implausible prediction.

![poly](figures/20200526.png?raw=true "26 May, 2020")

## May 25, 2020

Changed to a 35 day fit and 21 day predict ahead to see how it looks.
Brazil's daily rate is almost even with the USA's.  Mexico passes Iran
in total deaths.  USA is realistically about a day and a half away
from 100k (May 27.)  Brazil is now about 5 days away from overtaking
France and Spain. and about 13 days from moving to 2nd place overall.
USA reaches 110k about June 7 (this target moved because of the change
in fit range from 28 to 35 days moved the fit line a bit.)  Both
Brazil and USA over 1000 deaths per day still.  The US is very slowly
declining, but Brazil is still accelerating.

![poly](figures/20200525.png?raw=true "25 May, 2020")

## May 24, 2020

Brazil's daily rate just passed the USA's and is still accelerating.
Brazil is about 6 days away from overtaking France and Spain and about
14 days from moving to 2nd place overall.  Mexico passes Iran sometime
early tomorrow.  For the USA, the 100k mark pushed back to May 27,
110k on June 10.

![poly](figures/20200524.png?raw=true "24 May, 2020")

## May 23, 2020

No major changes in the trends. 110k pushed back to June 9.

![poly](figures/20200523.png?raw=true "23 May, 2020")

## May 22, 2020

USA fit/projection remains largely unchanged.  100k still on May 26.
110k around June 7.

Brazil and Mexico ... Brazil is really close to overtaking USA's
pace. :(

![poly](figures/20200522.png?raw=true "22 May, 2020")

## May 21, 2020

USA fit/projection remains largely unchanged.  100k still on May 26.
110k around June 7.

Brazil hit 20k deaths a day earlier than predicted and is on pace to
move into 2nd overall place in about 16 days.

Mexico on pace to pass Iran in total deaths by May 24.

![poly](figures/20200521.png?raw=true "21 May, 2020")

## May 20, 2020

USA fit/projection remains largely unchanged.  100k on May 26.  110k near
June 6.

Brazil is on pace to pass 20k deaths by May 22 and their rates are
accelerating and will soon be at a faster rate than the US.

![poly](figures/20200520.png?raw=true "20 May, 2020")

## May 19, 2020

Replaced Belgium (few new deaths) with Mexico (accelerating upwards.)
Mexico is on pace to exceed Iran's total number of deaths within a
week.

USA continues to it's glacial slowdown.

Looking off the end of the plot, Brazil is roughly on pace to pass all
countries other than the USA in 20 days (before mid-June.)  Wouldn't
it be a sad irony if the two of the countries with leaders that took
covid-19 the least seriously, ended up with the most deaths?

![poly](figures/20200519.png?raw=true "19 May, 2020")

## May 18, 2020

Daily rate continues to drop in the USA, now close to 1300/day.  100k
mark is pushed back to May 26. Brazil will hit the 20k mark near May
21.

![poly](figures/20200518.png?raw=true "18 May, 2020")

## May 17, 2020

![poly](figures/20200517.png?raw=true "17 May, 2020")

## May 16, 2020

Notice that Brazil is still accelerating the wrong way (and they have
a president that really doesn't think covid is a big deal.)

![poly](figures/20200516.png?raw=true "16 May, 2020")

## May 15, 2020

![poly](figures/20200515.png?raw=true "15 May, 2020")

## May 14, 2020

Under 1500 deaths per day now in the USA.

![poly](figures/20200514.png?raw=true "14 May, 2020")

## May 13, 2020

![poly](figures/20200513.png?raw=true "13 May, 2020")

## May 12, 2020

100k mark slips to May 25.

![poly](figures/20200512.png?raw=true "12 May, 2020")

## May 11, 2020

The pace continues to ease slightly in the USA.

![poly](figures/20200511.png?raw=true "11 May, 2020")

## May 10, 2020

Today is mothers day in the USA.

![poly](figures/20200510.png?raw=true "10 May, 2020")

## May 9, 2020

USA continues to trend down, but only by the slightest amounts.  The 100k
mark shows up around May 24.

![poly](figures/20200509.png?raw=true "9 May, 2020")

## May 8, 2020

For the USA, we stay flat, the 2nd order polynomial continues to be a
good fit to the existing data.

![poly](figures/20200508.png?raw=true "8 May, 2020")

## May 7, 2020

For the USA, we continue pretty flat on a pace around 1700 deaths per
day.

![poly](figures/20200507.png?raw=true "7 May, 2020")

## May 6, 2020

The big change for today is a switch from a linear fit model to a 2nd
degree polynomial fit.  We have to be extremely careful extrapolating
with polynomials, but the curve is flat enough over the fit time span
that it actually works very well.  I believe for this time period the
predictive results are better than a logistic function.

Note this new fit pushes the 100k mark out beyond the end of the
graph.  Professional model estimates have been pushing upwards (a lot)
in the past few days,finally acknowledging the USA as a whole is not
on a rapid down trajectory and no near term end is in site.

![poly](figures/20200506.png?raw=true "6 May, 2020")

## May 5, 2020

UK passes Italy.  Most of the big European countries are coming in
below the linear prediction, possibly moving towards a logistic
function being a better fit.  Brazil numbers are taking off.  US pace
might be dropping slightly, but only slightly ... or this could be a
weekend ebb in reporting.

![linear](figures/20200505.png?raw=true "5 May, 2020")

## May 4, 2020

The past two days have been down (yeah!)  Let's hope the trend
continues and breaks the linear fit!  The 100k mark is looming out
there around May 20 at the current rate.

![linear](figures/20200504.png?raw=true "4 May, 2020")

## May 3, 2020

A noticeable dip in the data for today.

![linear](figures/20200503.png?raw=true "3 May, 2020")

## May 2, 2020

![linear](figures/20200502.png?raw=true "2 May, 2020")

## May 1, 2020

![linear](figures/20200501.png?raw=true "1 May, 2020")

## Apr 30, 2020

![linear](figures/20200430.png?raw=true "30 Apr, 2020")

## Apr 29, 2020

![linear](figures/20200429.png?raw=true "29 Apr, 2020")

## Apr 28, 2020

![linear](figures/20200428.png?raw=true "28 Apr, 2020")

## Apr 27, 2020

![linear](figures/20200427.png?raw=true "27 Apr, 2020")

## Apr 26, 2020

Notice on this day the model predicted the 80k mark would be reached
on May 9.  Scroll up to May 6 and see that the prediction and progress
has been spot on (plus/minus 1 day.)

![linear](figures/20200426.png?raw=true "26 Apr, 2020")

## Sometime in early April (2020) the USA death toll became quite linear, and thus a linear fit/predictor became the best model of our behavior available for near term expectations (at least for the upcoming 7-14 days.)